she's in this wallow now okay like she's
completely disappeared in that water
you'd never know she was there yeah
it's like she's here at all not now
this is every time I she takes a lunge
she's using up that limit okay
look at Steve that shoe yeah yeah I've
got my brother yeah great right here
okay so so water crocodiles are
so-called cold-blooded that means that
they need the sun's warmth to get enough
energy to actually start being mobile
and as it's quite early in the morning
she's not going to have a tremendous
store of energy a couple of swipes at us
and she's going to run out of gas and
it'll be much much safe for us to be
here so we just need her to show us
where she is because when she's down
there and that she could be anywhere and
it's this is obviously quite a dangerous
time this here this big mound is the
actual nest and from her behavior I
would say almost certainly there are
eggs inside that okay now the tails
disappeared there she goes here okay so
she's gone is just the end of growth
over there and you can hear her heading
off that way she's gone at least six
seven meters away yep and for her to
come close to here we'd hear it so this
is time for us to get stuck into the
nest very quickly okay oh she's still
moving
okay Matt do you think I'll keep my eyes
open by opening up the nest we can see
how many eggs there are see if the site
looks vulnerable to flooding and log the
position this will help with building up
data about how Crocs are doing here this
is a saltwater crocodile egg and inside
there is a very very small but perfect
miniature crocodile
now there's something really remarkable
about this animal like many reptiles the
temperature that the nest is kept at
determines what sex the baby comes out
at it's a very odd way of doing things
but that's evolution for me this has
been a thoroughly successful mission now
all we have to do is close the nest up
leave it exactly as we found it and get
out of here before she comes back
hey Jacoby anything hear me you can
crank up and start plucking these boys
out
get pretty hot in email examining the
nest wouldn't have damaged the eggs in
any way the female will return as soon
as we're gone to continue to protect her
brood though pretty terrifying
it proves that Crocs have as much
maternal instinct as any animals we may
consider more cuddling my respect
facilities has gone through the ring
I can honestly say I can't quite believe
we just did that being that close to a
female sort of crocodile on the nest is
one of the great experiences in my life
but sometime I skin when I close first
made that move he certainly did I've
never seen you at jump say pan
believable but amazing to be dropped in
like that so first for me quick